Create a new post for creating a new database integration with data prepper (#3338)
opensearch-project/project-website: _posts/2024-09-24-creating-a-new-database-integration-with-data-prepper.markdown

Go to the **Dev Tools** application and enter `GET mongodb-index/_search` in the console editor to retrieve the MongoDB documents you created in step 2. 

#### Step 10: Add sample documents to MongoDB
Add sample documents to MongoDB using the following command:
 
```
db.demo_collection.insertOne({"key-four": "value-four"})
db.demo_collection.insertOne({"key-five": "value-five"})
db.demo_collection.insertOne({"key-six": "value-six"})
```

The MongoDB source in Data Prepper will now extract these documents from the MongoDB streams.

#### Step 11: Review the documents in OpenSearch

As soon as Data Prepper generates another log, for example, `org.opensearch.dataprepper.plugins.source.s3.ScanObjectWorker - Received all acknowledgments for folder partition`, return to **Dev Tools** and run another search on the index using `GET mongodb-index/_search`.

#### Step 12: Clean up resources

As you complete this process, make sure that you delete the DynamoDB source coordination store and S3 bucket as well as stop the Data Prepper, MongoDB, and OpenSearch instances.

### Summary

> We hope this guide deepens your knowledge of the Data Prepper architecture and the process of creating scalable plugins with source coordination. For any suggestions regarding new database plugins, assistance with plugin creation, or general Data Prepper questions, [create a new discussion](https://github.com/opensearch-project/data-prepper/discussions). The Data Prepper community and maintenance team are committed to supporting your efforts.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We hope this guide deepens your knowledge of the Data Prepper architecture and the process of creating scalable plugins with source coordination. For any suggestions regarding new database plugins, assistance with plugin creation, or general Data Prepper questions, [create a new discussion](https://github.com/opensearch-project/data-prepper/discussions) in the Data Prepper repository. The Data Prepper community and maintenance team are committed to supporting your efforts.  
```

---
layout: post
title:  "Step-by-step: Creating a new database integration using Data Prepper"
authors:
- tylgry
- dinujoh

> date: 2022-09-21 10:00:00 -0500

Reviewer 2: Update the date to: 2024-11-05

These methods provide for managing partition CRUD operations and getting the next available partition using `acquireAvailablePartition(String partitionType)`. A common source coordination pattern assigns a "leader" Data Prepper container for partition discovery and creation. This is done by initializing a "leader partition" at startup and using `acquireAvailablePartition(LeaderPartition.PARTITION_TYPE)` to assign partition management responsibilities. 

The following code snippet shows a basic source coordination workflow, using a hypothetical database where each partition represent an individual database file. See the [full code](https://github.com/graytaylor0/data-prepper/blob/6e38dead8e9beca089381519654f329b82524b9d/data-prepper-plugins/sample-source-coordination-source/src/main/java/DatabaseWorker.java#L40) on GitHub.

> The key components and workflow in the code for implementing source coordination in Data Prepper are as follows:

Author: Probably aligns more with the second one "The key components and code workflow for implementing"

            }

        } catch (final Exception e) {
            LOG.error("Received an exception in DatabaseWorker loop, retrying");
        }
    }
}
```

### Running and testing Data Prepper using source coordination

Before creating a new plugin, you must set up and run Data Prepper locally. The following steps guide you in configuring Data Prepper for streaming documents from MongoDB to OpenSearch using source coordination. While this example uses a single Data Prepper instance, the source coordination allows for scalability when running multiple instances with identical pipeline configurations and shared source coordination store settings defined in `data-prepper-config.yaml`.

#### Step 1 - Set up Data Prepper for local development

The [Data Prepper developer guide](https://github.com/opensearch-project/data-prepper/blob/main/docs/developer_guide.md) provides a complete overview for running Data Prepper in various environments.
Creating a new source plugin requires cloning the Data Prepper repository and building it from source using the following commands:

- Clone the Data Prepper repository
```
git clone https://github.com/opensearch-project/data-prepper.git
```

> - Build Data Prepper from source

Author: Think it's more common terminology to say `build from source`

```
Building software from source is a general term that refers to the process of creating executable binaries and other non-source files from the program's source files.
```

```
./gradlew assemble
```

#### Step 2 - Set up MongoDB locally

First, install and configure MongoDB using the [MongoDB installation guide](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/manual/installation/). Before running MongoDB, enable [MongoDB change streams](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/manual/changeStreams/) by following the instructions in [Convert a Standalone Self-Managed mongod to a Replica Set](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/manual/tutorial/convert-standalone-to-replica-set/).

Next, launch the MongoDB shell by running `mongosh`, and then create a new user and password within the shell using the following syntax. The username and password are required later in the Data Prepper `pipeline.yaml`. See [Create User Documentation](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/manual/reference/method/db.createUser/) for more information about MongoDB user creation.

> 

Author: Yes. I was trying to reference a later step in the guide but it is just that the username and password will be required by Data Prepper

```
use admin
db.createUser({"user": "dbuser","pwd": "admin1234","roles": []});
```

Then, create a new database named `demo`:

```
use demo
```

Next, create a new MongoDB collection named `demo_collection` in your `demo` database with this syntax:

```
db.createCollection("demo_collection")
```

Finally, add sample records to the collection using the following syntax. These records are processed during the MongoDB pipeline's export phase:

```
db.demo_collection.insertOne({"key-one": "value-one"})
db.demo_collection.insertOne({"key-two": "value-two"})
db.demo_collection.insertOne({"key-three": "value-three"})
```

#### Step 3: Set up OpenSearch locally

To run OpenSearch locally, follow the steps in the [Installation quickstart](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/getting-started/quickstart/).

#### Step 4: Create an Amazon S3 bucket

> Follow the steps in [Create a new S3 bucket](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/userguide/creating-bucket.html). You can skip this step if you have an existing bucket. This S3 bucket enables parallel processing and writing to OpenSearch across multiple Data Prepper containers in a multi-node setup, given that only one node can read from MongoDB streams at a time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Follow the steps in [Create a new S3 bucket](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/userguide/creating-bucket.html). You can skip this step if you have an existing bucket. This S3 bucket enables parallel processing and writing to OpenSearch across multiple Data Prepper containers in a multi-node setup, given that only one node can read from MongoDB change streams at a time.
```

        "dynamodb:UpdateTimeToLive",
        "dynamodb:DescribeTable",
        "dynamodb:CreateTable",
        "dynamodb:GetItem",
        "dynamodb:DeleteItem",
        "dynamodb:PutItem",
        "dynamodb:Query"
      ],
      "Resource": [
        "arn:aws:dynamodb:${REGION}:${AWS_ACCOUNT_ID}:table/DataPrepperSourceCoordinationStore",
        "arn:aws:dynamodb:${REGION}:${AWS_ACCOUNT_ID}:table/DataPrepperSourceCoordinationStore/index/source-status"
      ]
    }
  ]
}
```

Run the following command, then enter the `Access Key Id` and `Secret Access Key` associated with credentials that correspond to the previously defined role:

```
aws configure
```

Then, set the following environment variables:

```
export AWS_REGION="{{REGION}}"
export SOURCE_COORDINATION_PIPELINE_IDENTIFIER="test-mongodb"
```

The `SOURCE_COORDINATION_PIPELINE_IDENTIFIER` must correspond to the `partition_prefix` that you will define in the `data-prepper-config.yaml` in step 6. 

#### Step 6 - Create the data-prepper-config.yaml

Configure the source coordination store for Data Prepper using the `data-prepper-config.yaml` file. Currently, this store exclusively supports DynamoDB.

> In the `data-prepper/release/archives/linux/build/install/opensearch-data-prepper-$VERSION-linux-x64/config/` directory, create a file named `data-prepper-config.yaml`. Insert the following content, replacing `REGION` with your desired DynamoDB table region and `ROLE_ARN_FROM_STEP_5` with the appropriate role ARN:

Author: Yes

```yaml
ssl: false
source_coordination:
  partition_prefix: "test-mongodb"
  store:
    dynamodb:
      sts_role_arn: "{{ROLE_ARN_FROM_STEP_5}}"
      table_name: "DataPrepperSourceCoordinationStore"
      region: "{{REGION}}"
      skip_table_creation: false
```

The `skip_table_creation` parameter is set to `false`, instructing Data Prepper create the table on startup if it is missing. For subsequent runs, you can set this flag to `true` to accelerate startup speed.

> The `partition_prefix` enables soft resets of the pipeline in the source coordination store. When testing a new source plugin, incrementing this prefix (for example, `test-mongodb-1`, `test-mongodb-2`) ensures Data Prepper ignores DynamoDB items from the previous test runs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `partition_prefix` enables soft resets of the pipeline in the source coordination store. When testing a new source plugin, incrementing this prefix (for example, `test-mongodb-1`, `test-mongodb-2`) ensures that Data Prepper ignores DynamoDB items from the previous test runs.
```

> #### Step 7 - Create the `pipeline.yaml` file

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Step 7: Create the `pipeline.yaml` file
```

> In the `data-prepper/release/archives/linux/build/install/opensearch-data-prepper-$VERSION-linux-x64/pipelines/` directory, create a `pipeline.yaml` file with the following content. Make sure to update `S3_BUCKET_NAME`, `S3_BUCKET_REGION, ROLE_ARN_FROM_STEP_5`, and your OpenSearch password:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the `data-prepper/release/archives/linux/build/install/opensearch-data-prepper-$VERSION-linux-x64/pipelines/` directory, create a `pipeline.yaml` file with the following content. Make sure to update `S3_BUCKET_NAME`, `S3_BUCKET_REGION, `ROLE_ARN_FROM_STEP_5`, and your OpenSearch password:
```

      buffer_size: 1000000 
  source: 
    mongodb: 
      host: "localhost" 
      port: 27017 
      acknowledgments: true 
      s3_bucket: "{{S3_BUCKET_NAME}}"  
      s3_region: "{{S3_BUCKET_REGION}}" 
      s3_prefix: "mongodb-opensearch"
      insecure: "true" 
      ssl_insecure_disable_verification: "true" 
      authentication:
        username: "dbuser"
        password: "admin1234"
      collections: 
        - collection: "demo.demo_collection"
          export: true
          stream: true
      aws:
        sts_role_arn: "{{ROLE_ARN_FROM_STEP_5}}"
  sink: 
    - opensearch:  
        hosts: [ "http://localhost:9200" ] 
        index: "mongodb-index" 
        document_id: "${getMetadata(\"primary_key\")}" 
        action: "${getMetadata(\"opensearch_action\")}" 
        document_version: "${getMetadata(\"document_version\")}" 
        document_version_type: "external" 
        # Default username
        username: "admin"
        # Change to your OpenSearch password if needed. For running OpenSearch with Docker Compose, this is set by the environment variable OPENSEARCH_INITIAL_ADMIN_PASSWORD
        password: "OpenSearchMongoDB1#"
        flush_timeout: -1
```

> #### Step 8 - Run the pipeline

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Step 8: Run the pipeline
```

With AWS credentials configured and both MongoDB and OpenSearch running on your local machine, you can launch the pipeline.

First, navigate to the directory containing the Data Prepper binaries:

```
cd data-prepper/release/archives/linux/build/install/opensearch-data-prepper-$VERSION-linux-x64
```

Then, start Data Prepper using the following command:

```
bin/data-prepper
```

> #### Step 9 - Review the documents in OpenSearch

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Step 9: Review the documents in OpenSearch
```

> Wait for the export to complete, which may take a minute. Once Data Prepper displays  a log, for example, `org.opensearch.dataprepper.plugins.source.s3.ScanObjectWorker - Received all acknowledgments for folder partition`, open `http://localhost:5601` to access OpenSearch Dashboards. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Wait for the export to complete, which may take a minute. Once Data Prepper displays a log, for example, `org.opensearch.dataprepper.plugins.source.s3.ScanObjectWorker - Received all acknowledgments for folder partition`, open `http://localhost:5601` to access OpenSearch Dashboards. 
```

> 

Reviewer: Line 335: "a minute" => "up to a minute" or "a minute or so"?

Author: "a minute or so"

> Go to the **Dev Tools** application and enter `GET mongodb-index/_search` into the console editor to retrieve the MongoDB documents you created in step 2. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Go to the **Dev Tools** application and enter `GET mongodb-index/_search` in the console editor to retrieve the MongoDB documents you created in step 2. 
```

> #### Step 10 - Add sample documents to MongoDB

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Step 10: Add sample documents to MongoDB
```

Add sample documents to MongoDB using the following command:
 
```
db.demo_collection.insertOne({"key-four": "value-four"})
db.demo_collection.insertOne({"key-five": "value-five"})
db.demo_collection.insertOne({"key-six": "value-six"})
```

> The MongoDB source in Data Prepper will now extract  these documents from the MongoDB streams.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The MongoDB source in Data Prepper will now extract these documents from the MongoDB streams.
```

> #### Step 11 - Review the documents in OpenSearch

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Step 11: Review the documents in OpenSearch
```

> 

Reviewer: Step 11 has the same title as step 9.

Author: Can modify these to `Step 9 - Observe the export documents in OpenSearch` and `Step 11 - Observe the stream documents in OpenSearch`

Reviewer: @graytaylor0 Revised

As soon as Data Prepper generates another log, for example, `org.opensearch.dataprepper.plugins.source.s3.ScanObjectWorker - Received all acknowledgments for folder partition`, return to **Dev Tools** and run another search on the index using `GET mongodb-index/_search`.

> #### Step 12 - Clean up resources

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Step 12: Clean up resources
```

> As you complete this process, make sure perform the following cleanup tasks: delete the DynamoDB source coordination store and S3 bucket, and stop the Data Prepper, MongoDB, and OpenSearch instances.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As you complete this process, make sure that you delete the DynamoDB source coordination store and S3 bucket as well as stop the Data Prepper, MongoDB, and OpenSearch instances.
```

### Summary

> 

Reviewer: Line 360: "[create a new discussion] in the **data-prepper** repo"?

Author: Yes the Data Prepper github repository

Reviewer: @graytaylor0 Revised

> We hope this walkthrough deepens. your knowledge of the Data Prepper architecture and process of creating scalable plugins with source coordination. For any suggestions regarding new database plugins, assistance with plugin creation, or general Data Prepper questions, [create a new discussion](https://github.com/opensearch-project/data-prepper/discussions). The Data Prepper community and maintenance team are committed to supporting your efforts.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We hope this guide deepens your knowledge of the Data Prepper architecture and the process of creating scalable plugins with source coordination. For any suggestions regarding new database plugins, assistance with plugin creation, or general Data Prepper questions, [create a new discussion](https://github.com/opensearch-project/data-prepper/discussions). The Data Prepper community and maintenance team are committed to supporting your efforts.  
```

> that can scale via Source Coordination. If you have any ideas or proposals on new database plugins for Data Prepper, 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

---
layout: post
title:  "How to Create a New Database Integration with Data Prepper"
authors:
- tylgry
- dinujoh
date: 2022-09-21 10:00:00 -0500
categories:
  - technical-post
twittercard:
  description: " Data Prepper contains support for migrating databases like MongoDB and DynamoDB to OpenSearch. This infrastructure is extendable to other databases, and involves creating a new Data Prepper source plugin."

> redirect_from: "/blog/technical-post/2024/09/How to Create a New Database Integration with Data Prepper/"

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

These methods enable plugin creators to handle CRUD operations on their partitions, as well as acquiring the next partition to be worked on with the `acquireAvailablePartition(String partitionType)` method. A common pattern when using Source Coordination
is to assign a "leader" Data Prepper container that is responsible for partition discovery and creation of partitions. This is achieved by creating one partition on startup of Data Prepper that is the "Leader Partition", and utilizing the `acquireAvailablePartition(LeaderPartition.PARTITION_TYPE)`
method to determine if the job of partition discovery and creation of other partitions is assigned to a given Data Prepper container. 

The following code snippet demonstrates a simple flow while using source coordination. This example references a hypothetical database, where the "partition" is a single database file.
The full code for this example can be found [here](https://github.com/graytaylor0/data-prepper/blob/6e38dead8e9beca089381519654f329b82524b9d/data-prepper-plugins/sample-source-coordination-source/src/main/java/DatabaseWorker.java#L40).

> The overview of this code is as follows for the different numbered sections

Author: It's referring to the numbered comments in the code snippet. Ex: `// 1 - Check if this node is already the leader. If it is not, then try to acquire leadership in case the leader node has crashed`

2. If the leader partition is owned by this Data Prepper node, it will query the hypothetical database and create new partitions in the Source Coordination Store. When these partitions are created in the store, all Data Prepper nodes running this source will be able to acquire the database file partitions.
3. Acquire a database file partition to process. If no database files need to be processed at this time, an empty Optional will be returned
4. Process the database file by writing the records from that file into the Data Prepper buffer as individual Events. After the database file has all records written to the buffer, mark the database file partition as COMPLETED in the source coordination store. This will make it so the database file is not processed again.

> ```java

Author: Will update

        password: "OpenSearchMongoDB1#"
        flush_timeout: -1
```

#### Step 8 - Run the pipeline

Now that you have the AWS credentials, and MongoDB and OpenSearch are both running locally, you can now start the pipeline.

Move to the directory containing the Data Prepper binaries

```
cd data-prepper/release/archives/linux/build/install/opensearch-data-prepper-$VERSION-linux-x64
```

Start Data Prepper

```
bin/data-prepper
```

#### Step 9 - Observe the documents in OpenSearch

It may take a minute for the export to go through. Once you see a log like `org.opensearch.dataprepper.plugins.source.s3.ScanObjectWorker - Received all acknowledgments for folder partition` from Data Prepper, 
visit OpenSearch Dashboards in your browser at `http://localhost:5601`. 

Go to `Dev Tools` and run `GET mongodb-index/_search`. You should see the documents you added to MongoDB in step 2. 

#### Step 10 - Insert some sample documents to MongoDB

```
db.demo_collection.insertOne({"key-four": "value-four"})
db.demo_collection.insertOne({"key-five": "value-five"})
db.demo_collection.insertOne({"key-six": "value-six"})
```

> These documents will now be pulled by Data Prepper's MongoDB source from the MongoDB streams.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The MongoDB source in Data Prepper will now extract  these documents from the MongoDB streams.
```

> #### Step 11 - Observe the documents in OpenSearch

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
#### Step 11 - Review the documents in OpenSearch
```

> Once you see another Data Prepper log like `org.opensearch.dataprepper.plugins.source.s3.ScanObjectWorker - Received all acknowledgments for folder partition`, 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
As soon as Data Prepper generates another log, for example, `org.opensearch.dataprepper.plugins.source.s3.ScanObjectWorker - Received all acknowledgments for folder partition`, return to **Dev Tools** and run another search on the index using `GET mongodb-index/_search`.
```

> go back to OpenSearch Dashboards Dev Tools and run another query on the index with `GET mongodb-index/_search`.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
```

> #### Step 12 - Cleanup resources

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
#### Step 12 - Clean up resources
```

> You are all done! Remember to delete the DynamoDB Source Coordination Store and the S3 bucket, and to stop Data Prepper, MongoDB, and OpenSearch.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
As you complete this process, make sure perform the following cleanup tasks: delete the DynamoDB source coordination store and S3 bucket, and stop the Data Prepper, MongoDB, and OpenSearch instances.
```

### Summary

> After reading this and following along, you hopefully will have a better understanding of the internals of Data Prepper, and how to create a new plugin 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
We hope this walkthrough deepens. your knowledge of the Data Prepper architecture and process of creating scalable plugins with source coordination. For any suggestions regarding new database plugins, assistance with plugin creation, or general Data Prepper questions, [create a new discussion](https://github.com/opensearch-project/data-prepper/discussions). The Data Prepper community and maintenance team are committed to supporting your efforts.  
```

that can scale via Source Coordination. If you have any ideas or proposals on new database plugins for Data Prepper, 

> questions about creating a new plugin for a database, or even just general questions about Data Prepper, 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
```

> please don't hesitate to [Create a new discussion](https://github.com/opensearch-project/data-prepper/discussions), 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
```

> and the community and Data Prepper maintainers would be happy to help!

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
```
